---
ID: 1206
post_title: Scheduling an in-person meeting with me.
author: Dennis
post_date: 2014-02-07 12:58:11
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://dennisseidel.de/scheduling-person-meeting/
published: true
image:
  - ""
mfn-post-love:
  - "1"
dsq_thread_id:
  - "3526742702"
---
<p><strong>SHORT SUMMARY:</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Location: </strong>Yelp: 3.5 or more stars, $-$$, noise level: average or quiet, accepts credit cards, wifi: free (if possible), accepts reservations if possible. (Make reservations under “Dennis Seidel”)</li><li>Please create “Travel” appointments 1h before and 2h after lunches and 1h before / 1h after coffee.</li><li>Make sure calendar entries have location and backup contact info.</li><li>Cc: me on all correspondence. If you need action/input from me, add <strong>@Dennis: </strong>&lt;message&gt; near the top of the e-mail.</li></ul><div><!--more--></div><div> </div><div><strong>DETAILS</strong></div><p>I think it is awesome to get to easily set lunches, coffees, and calls with people. This is how that process looks like:</p><ol><li>I bump into people in person or get an email from them. If I meet them in person, I scan in or take a picture of their business card and add it to my file.</li><li>I introduce myself via e-mail and ask him/her to schedule lunch/coffee/a call. I use an e-mail template on my computer or a snippet on my phone to make sure that I include all the information necessary. I also refers to a note with my preferences and processes.</li><li>I contacts the person and negotiates schedule / location using <a href="http://doodle.com/dennisseidel">http://doodle.com/dennisseidel</a> or manual scheduling through e-mail, following up in case people don’t respond. If possible, we’ll suggest a venue with good WiFi near the person’s office or location. He or she would create a calendar entry for the meeting as well as travel/preparation time around it.</li><li>We have a task board where I could see where people are in the process, so I can be sure that nothing slips through the cracks  and we review it periodically.</li></ol><p>It’s important to me that the process <strong>doesn’t make people feel like I’m standoffish</strong> or self-important. I also want to make sure that we<strong> don’t drop the ball</strong> even if I take tasks back, so I want to use something like Trello to track scheduling status.</p><p><strong>PROCESS</strong></p><p><strong>STEP 1. Find a time that works for people.</strong></p><div>In Stuttgart? Offer lunch or coffee/tea, my treat. I prefer 60 minutes for lunch or coffee/tea, and 30 minutes for a phone call. I’ll take 30 minutes for coffee/tea if needed.</div><div> </div><div><strong>Days: </strong>I prefer to meet on Monday or Friday, usually afternoons. Ask me before offering mornings or anything that conflicts with something else on my calendar.</div><div> </div><div><strong>Buffer time: </strong>Around lunch appointments, I prefer to have at least <strong>1 hour free</strong> before lunch and <strong>2 hours free</strong> after (-1h/+2h). For coffee, I prefer to have 1 hour free before and 1 hour free after (-1h/+1h). Please create “Travel” appointments blocking off the time once the time is confirmed.</div><div> </div><div><strong>Suggest three times on different dates.</strong> In the same email, ask them to check <a href="http://doodle.com/dennisseidel" target="_blank">http://doodle.com/dennisseidel</a> for other times if the times don’t work. If meeting them in person, ask them where they’ll be on that day.</div><p>Check my address book to see if I have a cellphone number for them. If not, ask them for a cellphone number I can reach them at just in case something comes up, and add that to their address book entry. You can use <a href="http://contacts.linkedin.com/">http://contacts.linkedin.com</a> to update contacts in my address book.</p><p>Negotiate time if needed. If they respond by email, check that the times still work with my schedule, create calendar entries, and invite them.</p><p><strong>STEP 2: SUGGEST A LOCATION</strong></p><p><strong>If they suggest a place, go with their suggestion.</strong></p><p><strong>If they don’t suggest a specific place, just a neighbourhood or intersection, </strong>use yelp.ca and suggest something (or see my preferences below). Criteria for Yelp: 3.5 or more stars, $-$$, noise level: average or quiet, accepts credit cards, wifi: free (if possible), accepts reservations if possible. If the place accepts reservations, please reserve – pick a different place if you can’t get a reservation on that date.</p><p><strong>If they don’t suggest a location, or they want us to suggest:</strong></p><p>Coffee:</p><ul><li>Monday: [...]</li><li>Friday: [...]</li><li>Reutlingen Downtown: Alexandre</li><li>Ehningen IBM:</li><li>Stuttgart Downtown: [...]</li></ul><p>Lunch:</p><ul><li>Reutlingen Downtown:</li><li>Ehningen IBM:</li><li>Stuttgart Downtown: [...]</li></ul><p><strong>STEP 3: CREATE CALENDAR ENTRY, OR UPDATE IT IF SCHEDULEONCE HAS CREATED ONE (I’ll forward you the e-mails)</strong></p><p>Add to Google Calendar: Dennis / Hard Appointments<br />Title: Person’s name – Dennis Seidel: Discuss &lt;topic&gt;<br />Location: Name of restaurant, address<br />Attendees: invite them<br />Description:<br />Dennis Seidel’s cellphone: 0171 1277440<br />Link to Yelp page for restaurant<br />&lt;agenda or body of email&gt;</p><p>(Happy to reschedule or move – introduce me to your favourite place!)</p><p>–<br />If the place accepts reservations, please call and make them under the name “Dennis Seidel”, and add a note to the calendar entry.</p><p><strong>STEP 4. FOLLOW UP</strong></p><p>Check the calendar entry two business days before the event. Follow up with email confirming the date and time, asking them to edit the calendar entry or email me at mail@dennisseidel.de if they need to reschedule.</p><p><strong>TEMPLATES</strong></p><p><em>Sample e-mail introducing the assistant and asking her to set things up</em></p><blockquote><p><em>Hello, John!</em></p><p><em>I’d love to meet with you for lunch to discuss sketchnoting – my treat. Could you please organize lunch for maybe the second week of December? Thank you!</em></p><p><em>Dennis Seidel</em></p></blockquote><p><em>Sample e-mail from assistant</em></p><blockquote><p><em>Hello, John!</em></p><p><em>For lunch, would either Dec 10 (Mon), Dec 11 (Tue), or Dec 13 (Thu) work for you? 12pm usually works, but she’s happy to meet earlier or later if needed. Alternatively, if none of those dates work for you, you can check her availability at <a href="http://doodle.com/dennisseidel" target="_blank">http://doodle.com/dennisseidel</a> or send me a few dates and times that fit your schedule.</em></p><p><em>Also, where will you be at that time? If you’ll be near your office at 123 Anywhere Street, I can find a restaurant nearby. If you’ll be elsewhere, tell me and I’ll look for somewhere close – anywhere near the subway line would be fantastic. Got a favourite? We’d love to find out about it!</em></p><p><em>What phone number would be the best to reach you at in case something comes up?</em></p><p><em>Best regards,</em><br /><em>Dennis Seidel</em></p></blockquote><p><em>Sample calendar entry</em></p><blockquote><p><em>Subject: Lunch: John / Dennis – sketchnotes</em><br /><em>Attendees: john@example.com</em><br /><em>Location: Restaurant Name (123 Restaurant Address St., Toronto)</em><br /><em>Sacha’s phone: 416-823-2669</em><br /><em>Your phone: 123-456-7890</em><br /><em>Restaurant website: http://www.example.com</em><br /><em>On Yelp: http://www.example.com</em></p><p><em>To reschedule, please contact me at ______ . Need to reschedule on the day of the event? Please call Dennis.</em><br /><em><br /></em></p><p><em>&lt;agenda / notes from e-mail&gt;</em></p></blockquote><p><em>Sample confirmation</em></p><blockquote><p><em>Hello, John!</em></p><p><em>This is Dennis again. I’ve set up the calendar invitation for your meeting with me for 12pm on Dec 13 at Restaurant Name. Please tell me if you’re having problems adding it to your calendar. If you need to reschedule, please feel free to get in touch with me. You can check <a href="http://doodle.com/dennisseidel" target="_blank">http://doodle.com/dennisseidel</a> for updated availability. If you’re rescheduling on the same day, please call me at 0171 1277440. Thank you, and I hope you have a great conversation!</em></p><p><em>Dennis Seidel</em></p></blockquote>